README.md, before:

<h3 align="center">
<img src="./docs/images/Logo_Destination_Earth_Colours.png" width=60%>
</br>

</h3>

- [Polytope Examples for DT Data Access](#polytope-examples-for-dt-data-access)
  - [Access using your Destination Earth Service Platform credentials](#access-using-your-destination-earth-service-platform-credentials)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Climate-DT Examples](#climate-dt-examples)
  - [Extremes-DT Examples](#extremes-dt-examples)
  - [Polytope Quota Limits for DestinE](#polytope-quota-limits-for-destine)


# Polytope Examples for DT Data Access

## Access using your Destination Earth Service Platform credentials

This repository describes the process for accessing Destination Earth DT data via the Polytope web service hosted on the LUMI Databridge.

1. Install polytope-client from PyPI:
```
pip install --upgrade polytope-client
```

2. Retrieve a token from the Destination Earth Service Platform (DESP) by running the script included in this repository:
```
python desp-authentication.py -u <username> -p <password>
# see --help for more options
```
Or you can run the script without arguments
```
python desp-authentication.py 
# see --help for more options
```
You will then be prompted to enter your username and password if no credentials are found in a config or through environment variables.

You will need some dependencies to run the script, which can be installed using pip:
```
pip install --upgrade lxml conflator
```

The script automatically places your token in `~/.polytopeapirc` where the client will pick it up. The token is a long-lived ("offline_access") token.

3. Run the example scripts in this repostory to download data, and customise them as you wish.

## Installation 

To run the notebooks you can use the `environment.yml` file provided to create a conda environment that can run the notebooks. The following commands create the environment and also create an ipykernel called `earthkit` than can be used in notebooks if selected.

```
envname=earthkit
conda create -n $envname -c conda-forge -y python=3.10
conda env update -n $envname -f environment.yml
conda activate $envname

# set earthkit environment to the default used by ipykernels
python3 -m ipykernel install --user --name=$envname
```

## Climate-DT Examples

- [Climate DT Example Directory](climate-dt)
  - [Climate DT python Script](climate-dt/climate-dt.py)
  - [Climate DT notebook example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-example.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook domain example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-example-domain.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook healpix regrid](climate-dt/healpix-data.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook healpix ocean](climate-dt/climate-dt-healpix-ocean-example.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook feature extraction timeseries](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-fe-timeseries.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT MN5 notebook example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-MN5-example.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT MN5 monthly means notebook example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-MN5-monthly-mean-example.ipynb)

## Extremes-DT Examples

- [Extremes DT Example Directory](extremes-dt)
  - [Extremes DT python Script](extremes-dt/extremes-dt.py)
  - [Extremes DT notebook example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook domain example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-domain.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook regrid example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-regrid.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook feature extraction timeseries example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-fe-timeseries.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook feature extraction using H3 example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-H3-example.ipynb)


## Polytope Quota Limits for DestinE

To ensure system stability and fair usage, the following operational limits are enforced:

- **API Rate Limit:** Up to 50 requests per second. This limit may be adjusted based on system usage.
- **Concurrent Operations Limit:** A maximum of 5 download requests can be active at the same time.

Please plan your usage accordingly to avoid interruptions.

Commit message:

First on-demand-extremes-dt example (#23)
* Ulf Andrae: First on-demand-extremes-dt example

* Ulf Andrae: New exp

* Ulf Andrae: Update examples

* Make changes from review

---------

Co-authored-by: Ulf.Andrae <a000864@c22681.ad.smhi.se>
Co-authored-by: awarde96 <adam.warde@ecmwf.int>

README.md, after:

<h3 align="center">
<img src="./docs/images/Logo_Destination_Earth_Colours.png" width=60%>
</br>

</h3>

- [Polytope Examples for DT Data Access](#polytope-examples-for-dt-data-access)
  - [Access using your Destination Earth Service Platform credentials](#access-using-your-destination-earth-service-platform-credentials)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Climate-DT Examples](#climate-dt-examples)
  - [Extremes-DT Examples](#extremes-dt-examples)
  - [Polytope Quota Limits for DestinE](#polytope-quota-limits-for-destine)


# Polytope Examples for DT Data Access

## Access using your Destination Earth Service Platform credentials

This repository describes the process for accessing Destination Earth DT data via the Polytope web service hosted on the LUMI Databridge.

1. Install polytope-client from PyPI:
```
pip install --upgrade polytope-client
```

2. Retrieve a token from the Destination Earth Service Platform (DESP) by running the script included in this repository:
```
python desp-authentication.py -u <username> -p <password>
# see --help for more options
```
Or you can run the script without arguments
```
python desp-authentication.py 
# see --help for more options
```
You will then be prompted to enter your username and password if no credentials are found in a config or through environment variables.

You will need some dependencies to run the script, which can be installed using pip:
```
pip install --upgrade lxml conflator
```

The script automatically places your token in `~/.polytopeapirc` where the client will pick it up. The token is a long-lived ("offline_access") token.

3. Run the example scripts in this repostory to download data, and customise them as you wish.

## Installation 

To run the notebooks you can use the `environment.yml` file provided to create a conda environment that can run the notebooks. The following commands create the environment and also create an ipykernel called `earthkit` than can be used in notebooks if selected.

```
envname=earthkit
conda create -n $envname -c conda-forge -y python=3.10
conda env update -n $envname -f environment.yml
conda activate $envname

# set earthkit environment to the default used by ipykernels
python3 -m ipykernel install --user --name=$envname
```

## Climate-DT Examples

- [Climate DT Example Directory](climate-dt)
  - [Climate DT python Script](climate-dt/climate-dt.py)
  - [Climate DT notebook example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-example.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook domain example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-example-domain.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook healpix regrid](climate-dt/healpix-data.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook healpix ocean](climate-dt/climate-dt-healpix-ocean-example.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT notebook feature extraction timeseries](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-fe-timeseries.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT MN5 notebook example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-MN5-example.ipynb)
  - [Climate DT MN5 monthly means notebook example](climate-dt/climate-dt-earthkit-MN5-monthly-mean-example.ipynb)

## Extremes-DT Examples

- [Extremes DT Example Directory](extremes-dt)
  - [Extremes DT python Script](extremes-dt/extremes-dt.py)
  - [Extremes DT notebook example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook domain example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-domain.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook regrid example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-regrid.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook feature extraction timeseries example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-fe-timeseries.ipynb)
  - [Extremes DT notebook feature extraction using H3 example](extremes-dt/extremes-dt-earthkit-example-H3-example.ipynb)


## On-Demand Extremes-DT Examples

- [On-Demand Extremes DT Example Directory](on-demand-extremes-dt)
  - [On-Demand Extremes DT python Script](on-demand-extremes-dt/on-demand-extremes-dt-example.py)
  - [On-Demand Extremes DT notebook example](on-demand-extremes-dt/on-demand-extremes-dt-example.ipynb)

## Polytope Quota Limits for DestinE

To ensure system stability and fair usage, the following operational limits are enforced:

- **API Rate Limit:** Up to 50 requests per second. This limit may be adjusted based on system usage.
- **Concurrent Operations Limit:** A maximum of 5 download requests can be active at the same time.

Please plan your usage accordingly to avoid interruptions.
